We wanna get into the actual serverless
function that's gonna send these form
submissions.
So the way that that will happen
is we're going to get back into
this functions folder over here, and we're
gonna create a function called contact.
So in our contact form,
we can export the handler,
and that is going to get the event.
And then we also need to get the callback,
because we're going to send
back something a little bit
different than what we did before.
And the way that we'll do it is
we're gonna skip this context,
cuz we don't need it, and
the callback is the third argument.
So this is a full serverless function
setup, is you'll get these three things.
And the callback is a way to return that
status code that's done wherever you
want in your code,
as opposed to being returned.
And the reason that we're
doing that is because the code
that we're gonna use is callback-based.
And so instead of trying to unravel that,
we're just gonna follow their
conventions and use the callback.
So the first thing that I wanna do
is I wanna console.log the event so
that we can see what comes back.
And then we're going to send the callback,
so
the first argument to
the callback is an error.
So if nothing goes wrong, we wanna pass
null to signify that nothing is wrong.
And the second thing is that
object which has the status code,
which we'll send as 200, and the body.
And because we're gonna want to get
JSON back, this is kind of a quirk of
the way that these functions work,
is they expect and they send and
receive JSON, but
they don't encode it for you.
So you end up having to do
a lot of JSON.stringify.
So let's just send an object
that's boop: true.
And this function, we want to be
accessible from our Gatsby app,
which means that we need to have
a Gatsby app usable, ready to be used.
But we need to run this in netlify dev.
So what's handy about this, whoops,
is that Netlify will actually just
auto-detect Gatsby if there is
a Gatsby config file present.
So we can just create an empty file called
gatsby.config to tell
netlify dev to use it.
And now, if we run netlify dev, that
localhost:8888 is gonna have our Gatsby
site running, and we'll have access
to our functions at the same time.
And if you remember, we already
rewrote our functions to work at /api,
which means that we'll be able to
call our functions inside of our
Gatsby app as fetch /api/thing.
So we have this contact function here, and
I want to just get this thing started,
so let's run netlify dev.
And we can see that Netlify
auto-detected Gatsby for us.
So it also set up our Lambda server,
so now everything's running,
it's doing what we want.
And if I go to 8888,
we see our Gatsby app.
But then if I go to /api/hello,
our functions are still working,
so that's what we want.
This is exactly what we want, because it
means that now we can start interacting
with our serverless functions
as if it was on the live server.
So let's go back into,
let's close up some of these files,
let's go back into our form.
And let's make this form
actually do something.
So I'm gonna just take all of this out,
and
what I wanna do instead is
I'm gonna use that fetch API.
And I'm gonna submit to /api/contact.
And I wanna make the method POST, so
that it doesn't add a query string or
something.
And I'm also going to set the body, so
what we're gonna send to it is going to
be a stringified version of our state.
What we get back from that is gonna be
whatever we return from the contact
function.
So in this case,
it'll be this stringified JSON.
So using the fetch API, what we'll do is,
we'll get our response.
And then we want to
convert that into JSON.
And then we'll just get it, and
we can do whatever we want with it.
So I'm going to console.log,
That response, and then I'm also
going to set the state to SUCCESS.
And we'll catch,
in case something goes wrong, an error.
And if we get an error, we will
console.error with whatever came back,
and then we'll set the status to ERROR.
Let me make this all much smaller so
that we can see.
So this is our handler now, it is set
up to actually submit an event and
then respond and update the UI based
on what comes back from that event.
Does this make sense to everybody?
So if I save this, I
typo'd over here, status, not state, okay.
So what we have now is
the ability to send this form.
And it comes back from
the function very quickly,
because we don't have
a lot of issues there.
It's running locally, so
there's not a lot of time, but
we can see that it logged that boop: true.
So our form is doing what we expected,
it's responding appropriately.
But what happens if it's not
responding appropriately,
what if we have an invalid response?
Let's try, so let's just send back a 500.
So now, because I've sent back an error,
what should happen is we should
get a console.error logged, and
it will give us the ERROR state.
Okay, something went wrong, and this just
straight-up exploded, didn't like it all.
Maybe I need to make this into JSON,
I don't care.
The errors themselves from
the thing are formatted properly.
But, so, yeah, that is a functioning form.
We can actually use it.
It's gonna do what we want.